Add SPV_INTEL_vector_compute extension preview (#1612)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/SPIRV/SPV_INTEL_vector_compute.asciidoc

--
[cols="1,20,10,10",options="header",width = "80%"]
|====
  2+^| Decoration  | Enabling Capabilities | Extra Operands
| 5624 | *KernelArgumentTypeINTEL* +
Apply to a function parameter to provide information about high level language argument type.

_Argument Type_ is an unsigned 32-bit integer.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Argument Type_
| 5625 | *KernelArgumentDescINTEL* +
Apply to a function parameter to provide a string description of the argument.

'Description' is a literal string.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Description_
| 5627 | *StackCallINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that this function is a stack call function.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
|====
--

Modify Section 3.31, Capability, add the following row the 'Capability' table:
--
[cols="1,20,10,10",options="header",width = "80%"]
|====
  2+^| Capability      |     Implicitly Declares    | Enabled by Extension
| 5617 | *VectorComputeINTEL* +

> Enables the use of *VectorComputeKernelINTEL* execution model, *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* and *NamedBarrierCountINTEL* execution modes and *KernelArgumentTypeINTEL*, *KernelArgumentDescINTEL* and *StackCallINTEL* decorations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables the use of *VectorComputeKernelINTEL* execution model, *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* execution mode and *KernelArgumentTypeINTEL*, *KernelArgumentDescINTEL* and *StackCallINTEL* decorations.
```

See the client API specification for more detail.
|| *SPV_INTEL_vector_compute*
|====
--

Issues
------

1) Which, if any, capabilities should VectorComputeINTEL implicitly enable?

Discussion:

> Kernel, new float controls?

Reviewer: Should it be removed? It doesn't create any meaningful starting point for discussion, plus some float controls are documented by a separate extension

Author: removed

| 5624 | *VectorComputeVariableINTEL* +
Apply to a variable to specify that the variable is a vector compute variable.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
| 5627 | *StackCallINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that this function is a stack call function.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
| 5599 | *SIMTCallINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that this function must be vectorized to width specified in 'N'.

'N' is an unsigned 32-bit integer.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _N_
| 5625 | *FuncParamIOKindINTEL* +
Apply to a function parameter to specify properties of the register file corresponding to the parameter.

'Kind' is an unsigned 32-bit integer.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Kind_
| 5628 | *GlobalVariableOffsetINTEL* +
Apply to a variable to specify byte offset in general register file.

'Offset' is an unsigned 32-bit integer.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Offset_

> | 6085 | *SingleElementVectorINTEL* +

Reviewer: We already have `VectorAnyINTEL` that allows us to have single-element vectors, why can't we update our FE to actually emit vectors of size 1 instead of scalars if we want to use such vectors?

Author: OpTypeVector has a limitation in the SPIR-V specification - vector size must be at least 2.

Modify Section 3.6, Execution Mode, add the following rows to the Execution Mode table:

--
[cols="1,20,10,10",options="header",width = "80%"]
|====
  2+^| Execution Mode  | Enabling Capabilities | Extra Operands
| 5618 | *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* +
Specifies the size of shared memory required by kernel, in bytes.

'Size' is an unsigned 32-bit integer.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Size_
|====
--
Modify Section 3.7, Storage Class: +
Add *VectorComputeINTEL* to the list of enabling capabilities for the *Private* storage class.

Modify Section 3.20, Decoration, add the following rows to the Decoration table:

--
[cols="1,20,10,10",options="header",width = "80%"]
|====
  2+^| Decoration  | Enabling Capabilities | Extra Operands
| 5626 | *VectorComputeFunctionINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that the function is a vector compute function.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
| 6087 | *VectorComputeCallableFunctionINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that the function is a subject to fast composite call pipelining.

> See the client API specification for more detail.

Reviewer 2: Please sort definitions by their ID.

Author: Fixed.

Only valid on *OpFunction* or *OpFunctionParameter* whose type is <<Scalar,scalar type>> or <<Pointer,pointer type>>.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
| 6087 | *VectorComputeCallableFunctionINTEL* +
Apply to a function definition to specify that the function is a subject to fast composite call pipelining.

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* |
|====

Modify the description of *Volatile* decoration, add the following text: +
If the *VectorComputeINTEL* capability is declared *Volatile* may be applied to memory object declarations or members of a structure type in *Private* or *Workgroup* storage class.

--

Modify Section 3.18, Access Qualifier: +
Add *OpTypeBufferSurfaceINTEL* to the list of instructions that use Access Qualifier.

Modify Section 3.31, Capability, add the following rows the 'Capability' table:
--
[cols="1,20,10,10",options="header",width = "80%"]
|====
  2+^| Capability      |     Implicitly Declares    | Enabled by Extension
| 5617 | *VectorComputeINTEL* +

> Enables the use of *Private* storage class, *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* and *VectorComputeFastCompositeKernelINTE* execution modes and *VectorComputeFunctionINTEL*, *VectorComputeCallableFunctionINTEL*, *VectorComputeVariableINTEL*, *StackCallINTEL*, *SIMTCallINTEL*, *FuncParamIOKindINTEL*, *GlobalVariableOffsetINTEL*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables the use of *Private* storage class, *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* and *VectorComputeFastCompositeKernelINTEL* execution modes and *VectorComputeFunctionINTEL*, *VectorComputeCallableFunctionINTEL*, *VectorComputeVariableINTEL*, *StackCallINTEL*, *SIMTCallINTEL*, *FuncParamIOKindINTEL*, *GlobalVariableOffsetINTEL*
```

See the client API specification for more detail.
| *VectorComputeINTEL* | <<Literal, 'Literal'>> _Size_

> | 8088 | *VectorComputeFastCompositeKernelINTEL* +

Reviewer 2: Was this number and numbers below reserved?

Author: It's a typo, thanks for noticing. The number is fixed in the latest commit.

Reviewer 2: Thanks. I assume, since it's a fresh spec change, we don't have yet generated SPIR-V modules in user's code and we can change it in the translator, right? I'll update it in the translator in https://github.com/KhronosGroup/SPIRV-LLVM-Translator/pull/810

|====
  2+^| Capability      |     Implicitly Declares    | Enabled by Extension
| 5617 | *VectorComputeINTEL* +
Enables the use of *Private* storage class, *SharedLocalMemorySizeINTEL* execution mode and *VectorComputeFunctionINTEL*, *VectorComputeVariableINTEL*, *StackCallINTEL*, *SIMTCallINTEL*, *FuncParamIOKindINTEL*, *GlobalVariableOffsetINTEL*
*SingleElementVectorINTEL* decorations and *OpTypeBufferSurfaceINTEL* type.
|*VectorAnyINTEL* | *SPV_INTEL_vector_compute*
| 5619 | *VectorAnyINTEL* +
Uses OpTypeVector to declare vectors with any number of components.
|| *SPV_INTEL_vector_compute*
|====
--

Modify Section 3.36.6. Type-Declaration Instructions,  add the end of type instructions list:
--
[cols="1,1,1",width="60%"]
|=====

> 2+|*OpTypeBufferSurfaceINTEL* +

Reviewer: Why can't we re-use existing [`OpTypeOpaque`](https://www.khronos.org/registry/spir-v/specs/unified1/SPIRV.html#OpTypeOpaque) for that purpose?

Author: **OpTypeBufferSurfaceINTEL** will be extended in the next update to have [Access Qualifier](https://www.khronos.org/registry/spir-v/specs/unified1/SPIRV.html#Access_Qualifier) operand that cannot be applied to **OpTypeOpaque**.
